---
layout: post
excerpt: "Spatially heterogeneous reaction-diffusion equations arising from applications" 
title: "Oral presentation at OEMG Tagung, Graz, Austria"
tags: [presentation]
category: presentation
---

<b>Abstract</b><br>
Real-world applications often have spatially heterogeneous features that affect the dynamical behavior. 
Mathematical models provide insight into the change of behavior due to the spatially heterogeneous mechanisms. 
In this talk, I present reaction-diffusion models for different applications where the spatial heterogeneous part is crucial. 
First, a model for the dynamics during liver inflammation is presented. 
The spatially heterogeneous mechanisms is a non-local integral term, changing the system's behavior from decaying to the trivial solution towards a stationary heterogeneous steady state. 
Second, the traveling wave of mosquito-spread is stopped by a space-dependent intervention term. 
Third, in a comparable setting but with different mechanisms, the spread of a wildfire is modeled. 
The spatial heterogeneous landscape influences the speed of propagation of the fire front. 
Depending on the width of a low-biomass sector, firebreaks may stop the propagation.

Investigations into the sensitivity of the system's behavior with respect to the heterogeneous mechanism and numerical simulation give impressions of the importance of the mechanisms. 
Further, analytical results for selected scenarios prove the influence of the spatially heterogeneity. 

