---
layout: post
excerpt: "Model selection focusing on longtime behavior as qualitative data" 
title: "Talk at the Workshop Data driven computing and modeling in biology, Journées numériques de Besançon 2024, 29.01.2024, Besançon, France "
tags: [presentation]
category: presentation
---

<b>Abstract</b><br>
Biological processes often involve many different agents through complex mechanisms. Mathematical models may abstract from the microscopic nature and propose macro-scale dynamics for comparison with observations. One example is chronic liver inflammation for which the underlying mechanisms on a cellular level leading to chronic inflammation are not fully known. Typical observations are measured inflammation markers in the blood that are only indirectly linked to the micro-scale mechanisms. One crucial step in mathematical modeling is to formulate a model that links the information on both length scales. 

We present a step-by-step approach for selecting abstract mathematical models from a model family. The aim is twofold: 
First, to identify abstract mechanisms that confine large-scale observations, and second, to determine parameter values for these abstract mechanisms. These parameter values are not directly connected to experimental data but serve as a crucial link between known mechanisms on the micro-scale and observed phenomena on the macro-scale.

Our framework integrates machine learning techniques with the characteristic solution behavior of differential equations. The approach provides valuable insights into the challenges posed by limited data, a situation that is oftentimes appearing in mathematical biology.


